---
title: "Magnetic fields - Making life interesting"
collection: talks
type: "Tuna Talk"
permalink: https://www.cv.nrao.edu/tuna/
venue: "National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO)"
date: 2024-04-17
location: "Charlottesville, Virginia, USA."
---

Abstract: In the vast cosmos, magnetic fields are seemingly omnipresent, 
influencing phenomena from the scale of interstellar dust grains to entire 
galaxies. Due to the inherent difficulties in studying and observing magnetic 
fields, they are often overlooked, but their presence and effects can lead to 
interesting consequences. Studying magnetic fields at cosmological distances 
is not easy; however, with the advent of methods like Rotation Measure (RM) 
synthesis, we have a way to probe magnetic fields at higher redshifts by 
utilizing the property of light known as Faraday rotation. In the first part 
of my talk, I will briefly explore the unknowns surrounding magnetic fields, 
their importance, and the challenges in studying them. In the second part of 
my talk, I will present broadband polarization observations made with the VLA 
from 1-3 GHz at 1" resolution. These observations are part of a comprehensive 
106-hour survey targeting 201 radio quasars, of which 39 contain an 
intervening galaxy in their lines of sight. The goal is to use a statistical 
approach to estimate the RM of the intervening galaxies in the redshift range 
of 0.1 to 1. This dataset also includes a sub-sample of resolved quasars 
where we measured the RMs of the radio lobes. This sub-sample represents the 
first release of these observations, focusing on the fully resolved sources. 
I will present some of the results of the RMs of the radio lobes and also 
discuss our approach to understanding the evolution of the magnetic field 
with redshift in the context of galaxy evolution.
